All right,
we are moving on to the next chapter.
Chapter 3,
we're going on to our easy design.
So, we are going to start here
with our beginning CodePen.
I'm gonna open that on up in another tab,
fork it to your account,
get your windows all set and ready to go.
So as a reminder, these are the designs
that we are going to be putting together.
So here's the tablet dimension,
the desktop dimension and
then down here underneath
here is the mobile dimension.
Now which one of these
should we start with?
Three different designs
within one code base.
Which one do we start with?
>> Mobile.
>> Mobile, why?
Because mobile first,
it's kind of in the name, right?
Mobile first,
we start with our mobile design.
The original thinking on this was we start
with mobile because that is the smallest
screen we have to work with.
It is the least amount of information.
It is only the necessary things
should be there on mobile, and
then as we get more screen real estate,
we can spread out our elements, okay?
So mobile first is often the way
that we go about doing this.
You do it in the UX world in
terms of planning your content,
planning your images,
planning exactly what will be there.
In the code world, we do it from the
perspective of writing media queries and
such, writing our code.
Okay, so we're going to start
with this mobile design.
Now, we have lots of ways that we
could start HTML, CSS or JavaScript.
Which one are we going to start with?
>> HTML.
>> HTML, why?
>> Because without HTML,
you've got nothing else.
>> Fairly said, without HTML,
It is everything on your webpage.
You can have a web page that is just HTML.
That is not true of CSS,
that is not true of JavaScript.
You've gotta have some HTML.
So the first thing that we do is
we mark this up as best we can.
We try to fold in our semantics.
We try to get things in the right order
then we'll go on to style it, makes sense?
Fabulous, okay, so we're going
to start by marking up the HTML.
So we have an opening header.
We have an opening image.
We have a tour list.
We have images and reviews.
And we have a footer.
And I have a whole bunch of
different CodePen links here that
you're gonna refer to.
One of the things about CodePen as you as
you all know, you have a free account.
But if you want to include images,
you have to pay for your account.
No worries, I have paid for the account.
So if you use these URLs, you can get
the images in your CodePen, okay?
So no need to worry about that.
And let's go ahead and get started.
So if you open up our opening CodePen
here, fork it to your account.
The first thing that we wanna do here
inside of our web page to get started.
Anybody have a suggestion for
how we can start this?
The body element is never
shown inside of the CodePen.
It is there.
It is present.
It's understood to be there.
So we're past the body element.
How might we start our web page?
>> h1.
>> Probably there's an h1
in there somewhere, right?
We can also start it with our wrapper,
right.
So let's start it with a div
with a class of wrapper.
Always a great way to start a web page.
So that is going to put a wrapper
around our entire page.
Inside of that we're gonna
put all of our content.
Nothing will show up here on the screen.
And there's no CSS at this point.
Okay, so we know by looking
at our design we have what?
What's the next thing on the page?
>> Logo.
>> A logo.
So we need to add a logo to the page,
right?
What would that logo be
contained in in terms of HTML?
>> Header.
>> A header element, right?
We have a header element.
Let's use it, header / header.
Inside of that,
we are going to put our logo.
And that will be, we go back and
look at our web page.
We do have a URL here for our logo.
So let's just copy that URL.
Okay, and I think it might actually
be in your comments as well here.
I could have just referred to that.
It's right up here with the alt tag,
and the image tag, and
everything right here at the top
[LAUGH] of your CodePen.
There it is, that's what we want.
So we can grab that and let's copy that
and paste it here into your header.
Wow, look at that,
we finally have something fun.
It's a little bit big, why is it big?
>> That's the size of the image.
>> It could be the size of the image,
absolutely, but this is an SVG.
So SVGs can take on any size.
Where does this one come from?
>> The width of the view by default?
>> Yeah, it definitely is, right?
Gets honking big, gets honking small.
Really ridiculous, right?
Where does that style come from?
>> From the image.
>> Right there.
Image, the width is 100%.
The max width is 100%.
It's doing exactly what we told it to do,
gosh darn it.
Don't you hate it when that happens?
Okay, so that's why it's really big.
But we are working in our HTML and
we are going to ignore it.
Okay, we will get around to styling it but
we're going to ignore it for now.
The next thing that is inside
of our image, our thing here.
So we have, there's our logo.
The next thing we have is
the men of Magenta Lime, right?
So we need to include
them on the web page.
How should we go about doing that?
>> Could you open a section tag?
>> You could do a section tag, absolutely.
This is a section of the page.
We know we have an image here, right?
So after the header, we're going
to have some kind of image, right?
Is that enough?
Just the image like that?
We could put something around it.
So somebody has suggested a section.
That's one way of doing it.
You could use just a generic div.
And I'm going to give
it a class of banner.
What have I forgotten here?
>> Alt text.
>> Alt text, yes, three men of
Magenta Lime wearing blindfolds.
You could describe it more
detail than that if you wish.
Here in the drop down, we do have
the options here to Format HTML, okay?
So that'll help you with your indentation.
If you are debugging and
looking for problems,
there is an option in here
to Analyze HTML as well.
And it will flag arrows for you.
Okay, super helpful.
Okay, the next thing that we need
to add then is our tour dates.
So we see here that we've
got our tour dates, right?
We have the word tour, and then we have
a whole bunch of dates and locations and
stuff, right?
And, did I give you that text?
I did not give you that text.
All right, so
Let us just copy that
from the ending CodePen.
So if you'll go down here under marking
up the HTML, there's a link for
the ending CodePen just to save
a little bit of time here.
Let's go into this HTML and let's copy.
We're gonna copy from line eight and
we're gonna copy down to line 38.
So lines eight to 38 in
the finished code pen.
And that finished code pen is right here
under 3A, marking up the HTML, okay?
So just copy that, and we're gonna
paste that here into our web page.
So your page should look something like
this once you've copied and pasted, yeah?
All right, let's look at the markup and
talk about it.
All right, why did I use the main?
Why did I use main here?
What does main mean?
>> Is it just one of those context tags,
like section?
>> Yeah, it's kinda like section,
or article, or something else.
In this case, main means this is
the main focus of the web page, okay?
This is the most important
thing on the web page.
There's no lie here on this web page
[LAUGH] so it's gonna be the tour dates.
I guess that's the only reason why you're
coming to this website is to find out when
Magenta Lime is near you, okay?
So that's why we use main.
Then I used h1 for the tour, right?
Why did I use h1?
>> It's the most important section so
I guess the most important header
>> Most important section.
Most important header, right?
We didn't use it anywhere
else on the site.
So it's fine to use it here under main,
okay?
And then let's look at the next part.
So we have a date, right?
We have a location but yet I marked it
up with a paragraph with line breaks.
Anybody want to think about that?
Anybody wanna ask me questions
about why I did that?
>> About an address tag.
>> An address tag?
I'm so glad you said that.
Yes, an address tag would be
another way to mark this up.
However, the address tag is used for
two situations only.
One is, the author of an article.
What is their contact information?
Or, what is the contact for
the entire website?
That is the only time that
you use the address tag.
Strange but true.
So actually, this does not qualify for
the address tag.
I mean, I thought about this for weeks
before I finally left it just like this.
I was very obsessed with thinking
about how I wanted to do this.
So eventually we just went with this
paragraph with the line breaks.
But I think there are probably
better ways to mark this up.
And I think that you could probably
think of some better approaches to this.
But we're gonna go with this for
this course, make sense?
Good enough for now, okay?
>> Can you still, the mockup has
different styling on each line of each.
>> It does, doesn't it?
The markup has different styling
on each line, doesn't it?
We're not worried about that just yet.
Right now we're just
thinking about the markup.
What is the markup and
how are we going to do it.
Okay, then we have a series of
alternating images and reviews.
And since we're copying from this
finished version of the CodePen,
let's just continue to do that.
So I am at line 39 in the finished
CodePen, it's an aside element.
And we can go through and
let's just copy what's here.
This is gonna go all
the way through to line 76.
So from aside to aside, by the way,
here's another thing, another pro tip for
CodePen, kind of probably the same
thing as VS Code and others.
If you start at line 39, notice there's
a little caret over here on the side.
If you collapse that.
You can just highlight that
little bit right there and
not have to worry about where
you're scrolling down to, okay?
Copy that and
then we can come over here to our code and
we'll paste it in and
it will have copied everything for you.
Your page should look really wacky now.
There's an image and
then it says just wow and
then whoo, we got stars, okay?
That's cool.
We're just really not worried
about how it looks at the moment.
Let's go through the markup for
this, okay?
So we started with an aside.
Why did I use aside here on line 51?
Aside is being used as something that
is related to the main content but
is in support of the main content?
>> Correct,
it's in support of the main content.
So pictures of the concert and
people saying,
this was the most amazing
thing I ever saw.
That is definitely in support
of the tour dates, isn't it?
So that's why we picked an aside here.
Okay, then the next thing we have
a div with a class of image group and
if you fold that up here you'll see
that that winds up being a container.
See we have three of these.
Okay, so there's three of
these image group containers.
Any time I use a div, there's no
semantic value to it whatsoever.
It is a grouping element.
So we're just trying to group some
things together here on the page.
It will ultimately be used for
styling purposes or layout purposes.
That is the reason that that div exist.
Okay, so inside of that, We
have an image, right, with alt text.
And then after that, here's one
that's probably new to a lot of you.
We have a figure.
So the purpose of a figure is it's
going to associate basically something,
whatever that something happens to be, in
this case it happens to be a block quote,
we'll talk about that in a moment,
and it associates it with a caption.
So you can use this with a photo where
you want to have text underneath,
that is the most common way we do it.
We say figure, inside of the figure,
there's an image.
There's a figure caption right?
Here's my picture underneath it says,
picture of a camel [LAUGH] right, or
whatever it says.
Here we've taken this one level more.
This is a great way to think about how
to markup a quote that somebody said.
In this case, we have a blockquote, right?
This person said, just wow.
They probably also said,
what is it, four stars?
Four stars.
We're just displaying it graphically.
Those images are part of that quote.
So we have, there's our four stars.
Each image is one of those, right?
Each of those has a class of star.
Now there's one other
notable thing about this.
Have you taken a look at the alt text for
those stars?
What did I do here with the alt text for
the stars?
>> Star star star?
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Those are classes.
Yeah, Andrew.
>> Put it on the first image only.
>> I put it only on the first image.
See there it says four star rating.
And for all of the other images,
it just says alt quote quote.
In other words, an empty image, right?
Why did I do that instead
of star star star star?
>> Someone who is using alt text
doesn't need to see that four times.
>> Exactly,
this is a better user experience.
If you're listening to the web page.
To hear it say four start rating
is gonna give you a better user
experience than just wow,
star, star, star, star.
Nobody wants to hear that.
Nobody, right?
So instead we'll just put the alt
text on the first one and
we'll let the other three be decorative.
Okay, so that's what's going on there.
So that all goes inside of our
blockquote just like that.
Then we have our figure caption.
Figure caption has the fig caption tag.
And inside of that,
you'll see I have one called cite.
Guess what cite does?
>> It makes a citation,
>> It's a citation.
Yeah, who said it?
Who's the person that said the thing?
So the blockquote gives
you the quote itself.
The citation gives us who said it.
And we associate those two things together
with figcaption inside of the figure,
make sense?
Okay, so this is probably some of the most
semantic markup that you would have for
something like this,
using a figure this way All right,
and so
then we have that a couple of times.
So basically what we have is in the end,
we have a picture.
In this case like here this picture with
a quote associated with that picture.
Okay, and then the last thing
we need to do is add a footer.
So let's copy that footer.
In our final state,
this is lines 77 to 80.
We can just copy that and
paste that into our design.
So there it is.
And that is exactly what
you would expect it is.
It is just a contact link
in a copyright statement.
So that's always our first step.
Anytime you're doing this professionally,
anytime you're working on a new webpage,
the very first thing that you ought to
do is work on your HTML for that page.
And in parallel, you can work on sort of
that basic styling just like we just did.
We did a little separate webpage, we're
never actually gonna publish that and
make it live.
But it sets up our base styling for
the site.
Put those two things together and
you get what you get.
It's not the right thing, but
we're a lot closer than we would be if
we were looking at ugly HTML, right?
Okay, so
that is where you wanna start from.